MIME-EMAIL(1)			 User Commands			 MIME-EMAIL(1)

NAME
       mime-email - generate a MIME-formatted email message

SYNOPSIS
       mime-email [OPTION]... [FILE]

DESCRIPTION
       mime-email constructs a MIME-formatted email message from command-line
       options and an optional body file.  The resulting message is written to
       standard output.

       The message body is taken from FILE, from standard input when FILE is
       "-", or from standard input when FILE is omitted.

       The following requirements apply:

       * --from must be specified.

       * At least one of --to, --cc, or --bcc must be provided.

       * At most one FILE may be specified.

OPTIONS
       --from ADDR
	      Set the sender address.  A display name may precede the address
	      when multiple words are given; the last word is treated as the
	      address.	This option is required.

       --to ADDR
	      Add a recipient address.	A display name may precede the address
	      when multiple words are given.  May be given multiple times.

       --cc ADDR
	      Add a Cc address.  A display name may precede the address when
	      multiple words are given.  May be given multiple times.

       --bcc ADDR
	      Add a Bcc address.  A display name may precede the address when
	      multiple words are given.  May be given multiple times.

       --subject TEXT
	      Set the message subject.

       --date STRING
	      Set the Date header.  This option accepts any string without
	      validation, but the output of date -R is recommended.

       --attach FILE
	      Attach a file to the message.  May be given multiple times.  The
	      MIME type is determined by invoking file --mime-type.

BODY INPUT
       FILE specifies the message body file.  If FILE is "-" or omitted
       altogether, the body is read from standard input.

EXAMPLES
       Generate a message from a body file:

       mime-email --from a@example.com --to b@example.com body.txt

       Use a display name with an address:

       mime-email --from "Alice Smith a@example.com" --to "Bob b@example.com" \
		  --subject "Hello" body.txt

       Send a message with multiple Bcc recipients:

       mime-email --from a@example.com --to a@example.com \
		  --bcc 'b@example.com' --bcc 'c@example.com'

       Send a message directly via msmtp:

       mime-email --from a@example.com --to b@example.com \
		  --subject "Test" body.txt | msmtp -v -t

LINE ENDINGS
       By default, mime-email does not guarantee CRLF (\r\n) line endings as
       required by RFC 5322 / 5321.  On most systems, the output will use LF
       (\n) line endings.

       In practice, many SMTP servers accept LF-only messages without issues.

       If strict RFC compliance is required, line endings can be converted to
       CRLF either by enabling the corresponding code in the script or by
       applying a post-processing filter such as sed(1) in a downstream
       pipeline.

SEE ALSO
       mail(1), sendmail(8), date(1), file(1), sed(1)

AUTHOR
       Written by Kazune Iga

VERSION
       Mon Dec 22 12:20:27 JST 2025

mime-email			    2025-12			 MIME-EMAIL(1)
